Case Study: Hush Line

   A Cross-Industry, Open-Source Whistleblower Management System For
   Organizations and Individuals

   A whistleblower is an insider to an organization who exposes evidence
   of wrongdoing to authorities or the press with the intention of
   reforming it [1]. Not just an activity for exposing National Security
   secrets, whistleblowing can help make schools safer, businesses more
   compliant and ethical, and journalists more informed.

   Disclosing secrets is vitally important and simultaneously one of the
   most dangerous things an individual can do, especially in the context
   of government and national security secrets. People who leak
   information often go into it without a plan, leading to exile,
   imprisonment, and even death. To protect against the discovery of
   someone leaking documents, many tools available today offer Tor-only
   solutions -- meaning the tools they use to upload documents are only
   accessible through special software providing anonymizing connections
   to the internet. While an essential piece of the puzzle, requiring
   someone to download software that could make them look suspicious as
   the only way to share information is a non-starter, especially for
   people in countries where internet freedoms are restricted.

   But what about the students who need to have a safe way to report
   information to educators about school safety, teacher misconduct, or
   struggles at home? Or the businesses that need methods for employees to
   report information that could lead to legal liabilities, including SEC
   violations or other lawsuits, without risking their careers and
   livelihoods? Or journalists who need an easy and safe way to receive
   information without requiring the public to learn a new esoteric
   technology?

   In this paper, we'll see how Hush Line can meet all threat models, from
   nation-states to neighborhoods, by providing a product suite that is
   both usable by non-technical individuals and also highly resilient to
   censorship and surveillance.

   Most people will witness workplace harassment or discrimination, yet
   very few speak up [2]. The fear of retaliation creates a chilling
   effect that enables bad behavior that could lead to SEC violations or
   other legal risks for the company. In schools, students today have to
   go through active shooter drills and worry about gun violence, yet are
   afraid to speak up if it'll risk their reputation. And the business of
   journalism is changing, with budgets shrinking by 25% over the last
   decade [3]. How, too, should our tools evolve?

   This paper presents Hush Line, a new managed whistleblowing platform
   designed with usability, accessibility, privacy, and security in mind.
   Hush Line is designed to be a managed service, meaning anyone can come
   to the platform at https://hushline.app, create an account without
   providing any personally identifying information (PII), and have an
   anonymous tip line. Where others require specialized infrastructure to
   manage a tip line, Hush Line does this for you so that you can focus on
   the mission, not the machines.

   One of Hush Line's strengths is its flexibility, deploying to both a
   clear web address (https://hushline.app) and a Tor Onion Service
   (http://j5k...2ad.onion) for users who require advanced levels of
   anonymity. If, for example, a journalist only needs a Tor-only option,
   they may choose never to disclose our clear web address to their
   audience and only share their onion address
   (http://j5k...2ad.onion/tips/submit_message/artvandelay). And for the
   cases where it is critical to offer an address reachable by regular
   browsers -- Firefox, Sarafi, Chrome -- a user may choose only to share
   the clearweb URL
   (https://hushline.app/tips/submit_message/artvandelay).

   For users who do need complete control of their infrastructure, we
   offer a product called the Hush Line Personal Server, a physical device
   that runs your own instance of the Hush Line platform and deploys as a
   Tor-only service. For those who want to host the Hush Line platform on
   their own infrastructure, we provide an official software package on
   the GitHub Container Registry [4]. Our product is free and open-source
   for those who want even more control of the code, allowing anyone to
   copy and modify it for their needs.

   To understand our target audiences' needs and requirements, we
   interviewed former whistleblowers, lawyers specializing in
   whistleblowing law, journalists, educators, and business owners. In
   addition, we also ran a beta program for approximately six months to
   test an early prototype of the platform with real users and to gather
   first-hand feedback. During the beta period, we identified and
   successfully addressed vulnerabilities in the prototype with the
   community's support, leading to a more robust production application.
   We spoke to authors of previous research papers, former whistleblowers,
   and lawyers specializing in whistleblower law.

   Hush Line will serve as a product that meets users' needs across threat
   models and use cases. We remove the need for technical proficiency or
   complex requirements and offer a platform and interaction model that
   people are already familiar with. We hope this approach, which focuses
   on usability, accessibility, privacy, and security will lead to a more
   informed public, safer schools, and more ethical businesses.

The Problems We're Solving

Journalism

   It's not unique to Journalism, but from 2008 through 2020, there was a
   26% decrease in newsroom headcount, totaling about 30,000 employees
   [5]. With the realities of the changing workplace, tools requiring
   significant people-time, training, and maintenance are hard to justify.
   The software offered to journalists must meet them where they are, not
   require they change their behavior. Hush Line delivers end-to-end
   encrypted messages directly in your inbox so you don't have to download
   another app.

Education

   A 16-year study of one school showed that the feeling of safety went
   down when they implemented physical security measures, including metal
   detectors and gates and removing decorative elements from campus. Peer
   violence increased, calls to the police quadrupled, and teachers grew
   increasingly concerned [6]. Speaking with students in West Oakland,
   California, one 10-year-old girl said that if necessary, she would
   report information, but only if it wouldn't impact her reputation. How
   might schools be safer if there was a trustworthy way for students to
   privately communicate with trusted educators?

Business

   Up to 90% of women in the restaurant industry experience sexual assault
   or harassment [7], and 61% of all workers will witness or experience
   workplace harassment or discrimination. Stemming from fear of
   retaliation, fewer than 1 in 3 will make a formal complaint, and fewer
   than 1% find victory in court [8].

   Conversely, businesses can incur substantial penalties for SEC
   violations or other offenses that could have been caught sooner. In
   2023, global tech company AAB Ltd. agreed to pay a $75 million civil
   penalty for bribery-related charges. Goldman Sachs paid a $6 million
   civil penalty for a decade of fraudulent behavior, during which they
   made more than 22,000 deficient financial transactions [9].

The Price of Whistleblowing

   Whistleblowing is a risky endeavor. The examples below illustrate that
   tools alone are never enough. We'll see stories highlighting different
   avenues individuals have taken and their outcomes.

Edward Snowden

   One of the most influential whistleblowers of the last decades is
   Edward Snowden. He leaked a cache of documents he collected about NSA
   mass surveillance to journalists. His whistleblowing led to legislative
   reform in the USA, increased public awareness about whistleblowing and
   mass surveillance operations in America, and inspired the creation of
   new products designed to allow safer sharing of information for
   whistleblowers, including Signal, OnionShare, and even Hush Line.

   Snowden, easily one of the more technical whistleblowers of recent
   memory, was familiar with Tor and used Tails [10], an operating system
   that deletes all data when it shuts down, and whose traffic is
   completely tunneled through the Tor Network. Yet when he needed to
   securely contact journalists, he found the journalists lacked the
   technical ability to set up encrypted communications correctly. Snowden
   couldn't find journalist Glenn Greenwald's public PGP key, and even
   when Greenwald did get it configured with the help of Micah Lee [11],
   Snowden forgot to attach his own key in a message so Greenwald could
   privately respond. Snowden understood how the system worked and which
   technologies were resistant to surveillance, yet despite his knowledge,
   he is now exiled in Russia [12].

Chelsea Manning

   Chelsea Manning is a former Army private who, working with Julian
   Assange of WikiLeaks, leaked information that included evidence of war
   crimes committed by the US [13].

   While Chelsea had technical skills, she was living in the chaos of war,
   and was eventually caught because she shared information in an online
   chat with Adrian Lamo, a former hacker turned government informant, who
   reported the information to the FBI, which included evidence of
   Manning's crimes. Chelsea Manning spent seven years in prison before
   President Obama pardoned her in 2017 [14].

Andrew Aude

   Andrew Aude [15] is a former Apple software engineer who used Signal on
   his work-issued device for years to share confidential information with
   a journalist. Messages included trade secrets, financial information,
   and details about product roadmaps and launch dates.

   Despite his technical proficiency -- passing the impressive standard of
   Apple employment -- and using Signal, he was caught. Though the
   encryption was strong, and even if he were using an anonymizing VPN or
   Tor, his error was using a device issued by his employer.

   Mobile device management (MDM) software allows your employer to
   provision and manage hardware devices like mobile phones, tablets, or
   computers. Especially for a company like Apple, which employs ~164,000
   people, MDM software enables your employer, for example, to make sure
   proprietary apps for employee resources like HR or Legal are available
   to everyone immediately or apply consistent and timely security updates
   or make sure everyone's VPN credentials are correctly configured
   without hoping that hundreds of thousands of employees to get it right
   on their own. MDM software can also take screenshots or live-monitor
   any device in its network. So despite doing a lot of things right, if
   your adversary can take a screenshot of your conversation, it doesn't
   matter what app or tech you use to protect your data.

John Barnett

   John Barnett was a Boeing whistleblower and former quality manager who
   disclosed safety concerns using official governmental channels with the
   787s being made in his factory [16]. He filed an official complaint
   with the US Labor Department under an official whistleblower protection
   program [16]. He'd eventually bring a lawsuit against the company for
   the retaliation he experienced after sharing information with the Labor
   Department.

   John Barnett was at no time anonymous in his reporting and disclosing
   safety concerns about the Boeing 787. He ultimately experienced
   retaliation from Boeing because of this information sharing, and filed
   a lawsuit against them. It was during this period of engaging in a
   public lawsuit with Boeing, that he was found dead from a
   self-inflicted gunshot [16].

Security Goals and Principles

   Through speaking to former whistleblowers, journalists, and lawyers,
   and by reading academic papers published worldwide, we arrived at a set
   of guiding goals and principles:
     * Usability: No matter how technically advanced your software is,
       adoption will fail if a whistleblower can't use it.
     * Authenticity: Whistleblowers must have confidence they're
       communicating with the right person.
     * Deniability: Requiring whistleblowers to download software that
       could land someone in jail is a non-starter.
     * Availability: Whistleblowers must be able to access your software
       when they need it.
     * Anonymity: Software makers must do everything they can to protect
       source anonymity.
     * Confidentiality: Messages must remain secret. Communication between
       whistleblowers and other parties is protected and not the business
       of the software makers.

Current Tools

   To better understand why a tool like Hush Line is necessary, we should
   consider two things: 1. the needs of the whistleblower and 2. the tools
   currently available (Table 1). In this paper, we'll focus on three
   leading tools that provide examples of managed services, self-hosted
   options, and on-prem solutions: Signal, GlobaLeaks, and Secure Drop.
   Product Type Open-Source E2EE Onion Service Verification System Free
   Non-Profit User Directory
   Afri-LEAKS (Onion) Self-Hosted (Globa-Leaks Instance) Open-Source E2EE
   Onion Service No Verification Free Not Non-Profit User Directory
   CaseIQ Managed Not Open-Source No E2EE No Onion Service No Verification
   Not Free Not Non-Profit No User Directory
   Castillo Managed Not Open-Source E2EE No Onion Service No Verification
   Not Free Not Non-Profit No User Directory
   Confide Managed Not Open-Source No E2EE No Onion Service No
   Verification Not Free Not Non-Profit No User Directory
   FaceUp Managed Not Open-Source E2EE Onion Service No Verification Not
   Free Non-Profit No User Directory
   GlobaLeaks Self-Hosted Open-Source E2EE Onion Service No Verification
   Free Non-Profit No User Directory
   Hush Line Managed, On-Prem, Self-Hosted Open-Source E2EE Onion Service
   Verification System Free Non-Profit User Directory
   Say Something Managed Not Open-Source No E2EE No Onion Service No
   Verification Unknown Free Status Not Non-Profit No User Directory
   Secure Drop On-Prem Open-Source No E2EE Onion Service No Verification
   Free Non-Profit User Directory
   Signal Managed Open-Source E2EE No Onion Service No Verification Free
   Non-Profit No User Directory
   Whispli Managed Not Open-Source No E2EE No Onion Service No
   Verification Not Free Not Non-Profit No User Directory

Secure Drop

   SecureDrop [25] is a tool maintained by the Freedom of the Press
   Foundation [27], a 501(c)(3) focusing on defending journalism around
   the world. Created originally by Aaron Swartz and then inherited by
   FPF, it is a self-hosted system consisting of different servers for
   receiving, viewing, and handling files on dedicated network connections
   and air-gapped devices. Customers are responsible for finding and
   purchasing compatible hardware.

   To help simplify their approach, a new product called the Secure Drop
   Workstation is being developed and built on top of Qubes OS, a new
   security-focused desktop operating system [28]. The software provides
   functionality that compartmentalizes all of that physical
   infrastructure on a single computer. The Workstation swaps servers with
   virtual machines serving similar purposes. While more streamlined,
   Qubes OS is only compatible with limited hardware, which customers must
   also find and purchase.

Limitations

   A whistleblower who uses Secure Drop faces a few obstacles. First, it
   is a Tor-only solution, which presents significant risks to anyone in
   countries where the internet is surveilled and free speech is limited.
   Recently, activists have even been arrested for having Tor on their
   mobile devices, as with Ola Bini in Ecuador.

Signal

   Signal [26] is considered a gold standard for secure communication. We
   use it internally at Science & Design for team collaboration and trust
   it to keep confidential messages safe. Signal is a messaging app that
   is available primarily as a native mobile application for iOS and
   Android, just like WhatsApp. Desktop apps exist, but they require
   pairing with a registered phone. Signal is one of the few open-source
   apps, aside from Firefox and Tor, that have penetrated the public
   consciousness. Signal collaborated with WhatsApp to integrate Signal's
   encryption protocol into WhatsApp, instantly providing strong
   encryption for billions of WhatsApp users globally. Signal is a tool
   many on the Hush Line team have contributed to.

Limitations

   However, the problem arises with the lack of anonymity because in order
   to use the Signal app, one must download it from an app store like
   Apple's App Store or Google's Play Store. To do this, users must create
   an account using PII, leaking their identities to at least one party in
   the exchange. It's commonplace for these companies to comply with
   requests from law enforcement, both foreign and domestic. Then, to
   register an account, a user needs a cell phone number. Acquiring a cell
   phone requires more PII, this time with your ID likely scanned to know
   your customer (KYC) regulatory requirements. This is another scenario
   where the company must comply with law enforcement requests for
   customer information. Now, at least two parties know who you are. While
   advanced workarounds exist to approximate anonymity, they are not
   doable for non-technical users or individuals without extensive
   programming skills, ultimately rendering anonymity impossible for the
   broader general public.

GlobaLeaks

   GlobaLeaks [22] is a project out of Italy and is a self-hosted platform
   that's easy to install and use. It allows a developer to set it up on
   standard hardware and provides a rich and customizable platform for
   creating forms that meet your needs. GlobaLeaks, because of its
   relative ease of installation, is one of the most ubiquitous tip lines
   used by organizations worldwide today. There are forks, or copies and
   modifications of the code, like AfriLeaks, that host more instances of
   GlobaLeaks for other news organizations.

Limitations

   While easier than Secure Drop, GlobaLeaks still requires a developer
   and hosting your own infrastructure, making it less likely to be
   understood or used by the general public or individuals who do not have
   developer specialty knowledge. While the platform installs relatively
   simply, HTTPS is unavailable by default, and additional work must be
   done to deploy it to your domain name. Some users have reported issues
   about the platform's usability, while others suffer downtime from
   misconfigurations.

Other Tools

   Other tools in Table 1 include both closed-source and for-profit
   options. We believe that a tool catering to higher-risk use cases must
   be open-source and verifiable so that the public can trust the software
   to protect them to the best of its ability. One noteworthy
   closed-source option is Say Something [24], a tip line from the
   survivors of the Sandy Hook massacre focused on school safety and gun
   violence.

Threat Model

What's Different About Hush Line

   Hush Line is unique among whistleblower products as the only managed
   service that is free and open-source. Where other models distribute the
   risk to the individual customer, we are a centralized service, offering
   some liberties and other constraints: We can allow anyone to create an
   account, but consistent with other tip line/whistleblower platforms,
   we're also open to online attacks like denial of service or hacking
   attempts.

Challenges With Scale and Centralization

   Because of SecureDrop's decentralized nature -- meaning there isn't one
   central server running all of the instances -- an attack on one server
   is not an attack on all. However, that means that when there is an
   attack on three to thirty servers, there are three to thirty servers to
   defend, maintain, and fix. More directly, there are ~70 Secure Drop
   instances worldwide, but only one instance of Hush Line, managed by
   Science & Design. Among other benefits of centralizing our services is
   that it allows us to have more users; at the end of the beta period, we
   had >10x more active instances of Secure Drop than all active
   instances. Other things Hush Line needs to consider are traffic, bad
   actors, and paying for and maintaining the app's infrastructure.

Users

   User Type Goal
   Submitter Individual who sends a message.
   Receiver Individual or organization representative who reads messages.
   Verifier Staff member who verifies account owners (journalists, public
   figures, businesses).
   Service Provider Individual or organization who provides Hush Line
   services.
   Server Admin Individual who maintains the server operating Hush Line.

Adversaries

   User Type Goal
   Passive Observer Passively logs client IP addresses and their
   corresponding inbound/outbound connections (school/work networks, ISPs,
   DNS providers).
   Active Observer Targets specific connections.
   Passive Attacker Scans the internet for vulnerabilities to take
   advantage of.
   Active Attacker Seeks persistence, exploitation of known
   vulnerabilities, and seizure of physical equipment.

Assumptions

   The following assumptions are accepted in the threat model of the Hush
   Line product:

Assumptions About the Individual Submitting a Message

     * The individual submitting a message does so in good faith.
     * The individual submitting a message wants to remain anonymous
       against a network observer, forensic analysis, or to Hush Line
       servers.
     * The individual submitting a message is accessing the official Hush
       Line site.

Assumptions About the Person or Organization Receiving a Message

     * The receiver operates Hush Line in good faith.

Assumptions About the Hush Line Server

     * The server is operated in good faith.
     * The server is single-use and configured with the official scripts
       on the GitHub main repo.
     * The server has no other software other than what is required for
       the operation of Hush Line.

Assumptions About the Source's Computer

     * The computer has an updated version of a popular browser including
       Chrome, Firefox, or Safari, and for anonymous connections, an
       updated version of Tor Browser.
     * The computer is not compromised by malware.

Assumptions About Science & Design, Inc.

     * Science & Design wants to preserve the anonymity of its sources.
     * Science & Design acts in the interest of allowing sources to submit
       messages, regardless of their contents.
     * The users of the system, and those with physical access to the
       servers, can be trusted to uphold the previous assumptions unless
       the entire organization has been compromised.
     * Science & Design is prepared to push back on any and all requests
       to compromise the integrity of the system and its users, including
       requests to deanonymize sources, block message submissions, or hand
       over encrypted or decrypted submissions.

Assumptions About the World

     * The security assumptions of `passlib` and `scrypt` with randomly
       generated salts are valid.
     * The security/anonymity assumptions of Tor and the Onion service
       protocol are valid.
     * The security assumptions of Hush Line dependencies, application
       packages, and application dependencies, are valid.

Other Assumptions or Factors

     * The level of press freedom may vary in both geography and time.
     * The number of daily Tor users in a country can greatly vary.

Threats, Failure Points, Impacts and Mitigations

Threat: Server Compromise

     * Impacts: If an attacker obtains the database encryption key, its
       contents may be decrypted. Still, we do not require PII. If you
       have SMTP delivery configured, your forwarding address will be
       visible. If you haven't added your own public PGP key to your
       account, message content will be visible.
     * Mitigation: Hush Line does not require PII, including an email
       address, to use the service. To protect message content, users are
       encouraged to add their own PGP key. We store data encrypted in our
       database, and do not store timestamps or associate member data in
       any way. The database key is never hardcoded, is isolated from both
       app and database environments, and is stored in Terraform platform
       environment variables, removing the chance of exposure to the
       source code.

Threat: Network Observers

     * Impacts: Adversaries who monitor network connections to our server
       can see your IP address and the domain you're visiting.
     * Mitigation: All data in transit is encrypted using TLS, and users
       are encouraged to access Hush Line via Tor for additional
       anonymity. This prevents network observers from deciphering the
       content or metadata of communications.

Threat: Account Compromise

     * Impacts: Disruption of Hush Line usage, impersonation which could
       lead to reputational harm or other damages.
     * Mitigation: Strong password policies, optional 2FA, and secure
       password reset mechanisms are in place to protect user accounts.
       Users are educated on best practices for maintaining account
       security.

Threat: Legal and Coercive Pressure

     * Impacts: Science & Design, Inc. and Hush Line must comply with
       legitimate legal requests, which could result in the forfeiture of
       data that includes your username, SMTP information, public PGP key,
       or other information you provide to Hush Line. No PII is required
       to use the Hush Line service, but if you've donated to our Open
       Collective or purchased anything from our Shopify store,
       potentially identifying information, including your shipping and
       billing address, name, email address, and IP address, could be tied
       back to you with sufficient analysis.
     * Mitigation: Hush Line is designed to hold minimal information that
       could be of interest in legal contexts.

Failure Points

The Human Element

   The human element encompasses anything a person can touch. For
   developers, it means the code they write; for journalists, it means the
   tools they use and how they are used. Bugs are always part of software
   engineering, and we should never assume there is a "perfect" state of
   security or anonymity. If you give users a robust and well-considered
   privacy policy, we know they won't read it. And it's safe to assume
   that humans will look for shortcuts when presented with complex
   workflows. This includes using work-issued devices or networks to
   communicate with journalists or exfiltrate secret information.

Compromised Devices

   The human element includes compromising devices. Few guardrails on
   Android protect users from installing malware from unknown sources, and
   even Google's Play Store hosts applications that contain malware [29].
   It doesn't have to be as obvious as installing suspicious software from
   suspicious sources. It can be as simple as clicking a link and loading
   a URL, or even loading images in your email client [30]:

     "As described in the proof-of-concept attack released by the
     researchers, the attacker uses one of the encrypted messages you are
     supposed to receive or might have already received and then turns it
     into a multipart HTML email message, as well as forges the return
     address, so it appears to come from the original sender. In the
     newly composed email, the attacker adds an unclosed image tag, like
     this, as clearly shown in the screenshot. When your vulnerable email
     client receives this message, it decrypts the encrypted part of the
     message given in the middle, and then automatically tries to render
     the HTML content, i.e., the image tag with all the decrypted text as
     the new name of the image, as shown below. Since your email client
     will try to load the image from the attacker-controlled server, the
     attacker can capture this incoming request, where the filename
     contains the full content of the original encrypted email in
     plaintext."

Compromised Infrastructure

   Hush Line uses cloud providers to manage our application and database.
   Our distributed approach increases security by isolating our database
   from the application environment and limiting access. But with this
   convenience comes the risk of our providers receiving a gag order and
   being forced to install monitoring software, lest they want to face
   prison or time-consuming legal proceedings.

Hush Line's Additional Protections

Verification System

   Hush Line employs a verification system to ensure that users can trust
   the source of communication. This system is essential for users who are
   public figures or have a broad audience. The verification system
   includes:
     * Display of Verification Status: Hush Line indicates verified
       accounts with a distinctive **Verified** badge. This visual
       indicator helps users distinguish authentic accounts from potential
       impersonators, reducing the risk of phishing attacks.
     * Data Retention: The information used to verify you is never saved,
       even temporarily.

User Education

     * Encryption Indicators: The platform informs users whether their
       messages will be encrypted. For accounts with a public PGP key,
       messages are encrypted, ensuring that only the intended recipient
       can decrypt and read them. This feature is highlighted through
       messages on the submission form, emphasizing the importance of
       encryption for sensitive information.

User Guidance

     * Informative Messages for Senders and Receivers: Hush Line educates
       its users about the significance of encryption and the steps
       required to ensure message confidentiality. This includes prompts
       for receivers to add a public PGP key if they haven't already, and
       notifications for senders about the encryption status of their
       message.

   Hush Line addresses the problems we've observed across different
   industries: high costs and usability challenges of existing solutions,
   shrinking budgets in newsrooms, classrooms, and workplaces, and the
   absence of an open-source managed service operated by a non-profit.

   The threats vary in severity, but the needs across job roles and use
   cases are similar. Whether nation-states or neighborhood watches,
   individuals need a highly available, usable, and affordable product.
   Most people needing confidential reporting are busy and don't have the
   time to adopt a new workflow or learn new technology. When a
   whistleblower decides to talk to a lawyer or journalist, they're
   vulnerable and likely have already faced retaliation. Hush Line removes
   all technical hurdles from people who need help by offering a platform
   that is accessible with the software already on your phone or computer.

   We use widely adopted, time-tested standards and protocols, allowing
   for greater interoperability with popular tools like Proton Mail and
   Mailvelope. We designed Hush Line to shine as a background service -
   understanding that many people have app-overload and adding anything
   new is a big request. Hush Line forwards encrypted messages to your
   email inbox, ensuring you never miss an important tip.

Our Users

   User Group Needs Pain Points
   Whistleblowers - Helpful guidance
   - Trustworthy tools
   - Legal protection
   - Confidential communication - Trust in tools and people
   - Gathering evidence
   - Financial support
   - Career risks
   Lawyers - Low-effort tools to receive whistleblower messages
   - Tools to help analyze technical data
   - Evidence to support claims - Overwhelming amounts of data
   - Not enough time or staff to handle all clients
   - Hard to use tools requiring specialized training
   Journalists - Secure communication channels with whistleblowers
   - Access to verified information
   - Tools for verifying the authenticity of documents - Protecting
   sources' identities
   - Verifying information under tight deadlines
   - Risk of legal repercussions
   Educators - Educational materials on whistleblowing
   - Case studies and real-world examples
   - Tools for facilitating anonymous reporting within educational
   institutions - Lack of awareness about whistleblowing
   - Ensuring students understand the importance of confidentiality
   - Integrating whistleblowing topics into the curriculum
   Businesses - Anonymous reporting channels for employees
   - Tools for monitoring and managing reports
   - Support for legal and compliance requirements - Building trust in the
   reporting process
   - Managing and responding to reports efficiently
   - Balancing transparency with confidentiality

System Requirements

   We built Hush Line as a managed service designed for high availability,
   usability, and security. While Hush Line is intended for users to
   create an account on `hushline.app`, we encourage people and
   organizations to self-host if they prefer. For consistent
   implementation, we provide full documentation on getting it started for
   your organization.

Architecture

   System Requirements

Hush Line Technical Architecture

   We use a combination of Digital Ocean, Terraform, and GitHub to
   automate our build and release pipeline and disposable development
   environments.

Database Isolation

   To help defend against database compromise, we isolate resources, as
   seen in Diagram 1. In the event that the application server becomes
   compromised, lateral movement to the database is not possible. We use
   TLS encryption for connections to and from the database and restrict
   access to application and bastion servers.

Bastion Server

   The only way to access the database is through a Bastion server -- an
   isolated server that infrastructure owners SSH into and then connect to
   the database. Access to the Bastion server is restricted to relevant
   technical staff, and SSH is completely disabled to the database server.

Mail Forwarding

   Email forwarding is a convenient and user-friendly feature. Our
   integration of Mailgun allows a tip line owner to enter their email
   address, and forwarding will work. Alternatively, a user may use a
   custom SMTP provider or have no SMTP forwarding at all. Custom
   configurations mean end users must have technical proficiency in
   finding their SMTP server, port, username, and password if their email
   provider supports it.

Onion Services

   We use Onion Services for users with advanced privacy needs. An Onion
   Service issues our app and website a `.onion` address, making it
   accessible anonymously using the Tor Browser. Onion Services bypass DNS
   by never exiting the Tor Network to reach its destination. Our Onion
   Services are run in isolated containers for increased security.

Managed Services

   Using managed services always comes with tradeoffs. On one hand, they
   add a layer of risk by trusting a third party. On the other hand, they
   allow us to minimize risk by offloading server and database
   maintenance. Hush Line addresses this by requiring a PGP key to enable
   email forwarding and ensuring plaintext messages are never shared
   outside of our hosting platform, Digital Ocean, in our case.

Product Design

   Whistleblowing is a scary, unfamiliar process, and the software you use
   should be disarming while doing all it can to keep you safe. We're a
   text-only service and encourage users to begin with a plan rather than
   grabbing and dumping loads of information. We think that through
   guidance and education, users can keep themselves safe while engaging
   in responsible disclosure.

Interface Design

   The application's UI leans into conversational conventions with a sense
   of levity, using emoji throughout the interface text. It tries not to
   rush the user but rather present information in a friendly way that
   helps educate the whistleblower while maintaining a high standard for
   usability.

Interaction Design

   Perhaps what differentiates Hush Line the most is that we're a
   centralized service. Rather than depending on individual self-hosters
   to configure their own instances correctly, we manage all of the
   services, so users don't have to worry about specialized tech and can
   instead focus on their work.

   Like any modern web service, including Instagram, Google, or Signal, a
   user may go to the Hush Line app and create an account to use the
   platform. In a Settings panel, individuals can add their own PGP key,
   set up email forwarding, add a display name, or enable two-factor
   authentication.

Accessibility

   Hush Line received a service grant from Open Tech Fund in the form of
   an accessibility audit. The audit's goals were to make the
   screen-reader experience usable, descriptive, and intentional.

To CAPTCHA?

   Throughout the beta period, users received spam messages. Since
   messages can be end-to-end encrypted, combined with using custom SMTP
   settings, client-side filtering is an imperfect solution.

hCaptcha

   An analysis of an hCaptcha integration showed multiple external site
   connections, increasing IP leakage just to send a message. There are
   also security tradeoffs since "it loads
   `https://newassets.hcaptcha.com//captcha/v1/988e468/hcaptcha.js` along
   with multiple other javascript source files, and it executes them in
   the browser." [31]
   [a900e7cd-a0b5-413a-b8fe-ed1b25d8b909]

Local Captcha

   We explored CAPTCHA options including creating an image with letters
   and numbers obstructed by randomly drawn lines and presenting a basic
   math problem. Using an image was a blocker due to accessibility
   limitations: a bling user won't be able to read the image, even with
   assistive technology, and therefore wouldn't be able to submit a
   message. A math problem, while not perfect, only needs to catch most
   bots, and since it's an accessible solution, it was our best option.
   @app.route("/submit_message/", methods=["GET", "POST"])
   def submit_message(username: str) -> Response | str:
   form = MessageForm()
   user = User.query.filter_by(primary_username=username).first()
   if request.method == "GET":
   # Generate a simple math problem
   num1 = secrets.randbelow(10) + 1
   num2 = secrets.randbelow(10) + 1
   math_problem = f"{num1} + {num2} ="
   session["math_answer"] = str(num1 + num2) # Store the answer
   if form.validate_on_submit():
   captcha_answer = request.form.get("captcha_answer", "")
   if not validate_captcha(captcha_answer):
   return redirect(url_for("submit_message", username=username))
   # Save the message or handle encryption (omitted for brevity)
   return render_template(
   "submit_message.html",
   form=form,
   user=user,
   math_problem=math_problem,
   )
   def validate_captcha(captcha_answer: str) -> bool:
   if not captcha_answer.isdigit():
   flash("Incorrect CAPTCHA. Please enter a valid number.", "error")
   return False
   if captcha_answer != session.get("math_answer"):
   flash("Incorrect CAPTCHA. Please try again.", "error")
   return False
   return True

Making PGP Slightly Easier

Pretty Good Privacy (PGP)

   PGP works using public/private key encryption. Think of your public key
   as envelopes made just for you and the private key as a special letter
   opener, the only thing in the world that can open those envelopes.

   Most of the time, PGP works by two people individually, creating a
   public/private key pair. They first exchange public keys and may begin
   sending encrypted messages. Only the sender and receiver's private
   keys, which are never shared with anyone, can decrypt the messages.

Proton

   We recommend using Hush Line in conjunction with Proton. Proton
   provides encrypted productivity tools, with Proton Mail being their
   flagship application. Proton Mail is an email provider like Gmail, but
   it is encrypted, so only you can read its contents, not the company or
   even an attacker with access to its servers. Like Hush Line, Proton
   uses PGP for message encryption, so a user may download a copy of their
   Proton public PGP key in Mail settings. A user adds that key to their
   Hush Line settings, and also adds their Proton Mail address for email
   forwarding, and now any tips submitted to your Hush Line will be
   delivered to Proton, and since you have the private key already there,
   they'll automatically be decrypted for you!

Mailvelope

   For users of other email services, including Gmail, we've integrated
   Mailvelope, a powerful browser extension that enables PGP encryption
   and decryption directly in the browser. Users may install the
   Mailvelope browser extension on Chrome or Firefox, and once configured,
   can read decoded messages without any other application.

Limitations

Money

   Scale and money are the main limiters for a web application. Currently,
   at ~$1,500/yr, it's a manageable number, even if the hosting
   organization took it on entirely. However, as we scale, costs may
   significantly increase to more than is sustainable without a financial
   model to support the service.

User Error

   We also cannot account for the operational security or online behavior
   of individuals using our platform. For example, if a whistleblower uses
   a compromised device to record their screen, Hush Line cannot protect
   their communications.

Governments

   Our services are hosted in the United States, which has National
   Security laws that may force a provider, including us, to remain silent
   about orders received. This means that if Digital Ocean received an
   order to monitor Hush Line's servers, they may not be allowed to tell
   us about it. This is why we encourage all users to add a PGP key to
   their account.

Developer Error

   Humans will make errors. Even the developers of Hush Line, despite
   their expertise, are still prone to errors. Hush Line is proudly open
   source, and we encourage the community of users, hackers, security
   researchers, and others to find ways to improve.

MVP Maintenance Cost and Resource Overview

   Item Specs Monthly Cost Annual Cost
   Managed Database 512 MB, 10 GB Disk $60/mo $720/yr
   Email Forwarding $35/mo $420/yr
   App - Production App 1 GB RAM, 1 vCPU, 150 GB Bandwidth $12/mo $144/yr
   App - Onion Service 512 MB RAM, 1 vCPU, 50 GB Bandwidth $5/mo $60/yr
   Website - Public Website 512 MB RAM, 1 vCPU, 50 GB Bandwidth $5/mo
   $60/yr
   Website - Onion Service 512 MB RAM, 1 vCPU, 50 GB Bandwidth $5/mo
   $60/yr
   Bastion Server 512 MB RAM, 1 vCPU, 10 GB Disk $4/mo $48/yr
   Dev Droplets 512 MB RAM, 1 vCPU, 50 GB Bandwidth $4/mo $48 per
   droplet/yr
   Total $130/mo $1,560/yr

Personal Server

   As we've seen, the convenience of centralized web applications provides
   opportunities for high availability, scalability, and usability, we
   know that sometimes a user's threat models include not trusting any
   third parties. In this situation, we offer the Hush Line Personal
   Server. It hosts the entire Hush Line platform on a self-hosted device.
   We designed a custom case milled from solid aircraft-grade aluminum
   that physically closes access to all ports except power and ethernet,
   making it resistant to Evil Maid attacks. Additionally, we disable SSH,
   USB, and Wifi on the device. A user boots it up, and an e-paper display
   will show a QR code with the address to their Hush Line Onion Service
   instance.
   [2fc88bf0-9927-43cb-9422-f0e4dd7e5a98]

System Requirements

   The Personal Server is designed to be deployable to hardware with
   limited resources, specifically the Raspberry Pi. It uses a pre-built
   image and Docker to containerize the app, onion service, and database.
   The Personal Server is a consumer device that packages a Raspberry Pi 4
   with 1 GB RAM, an e-paper display, and a custom, security-focused case.

Costs

   Item Specs Cost
   Internet Service 100 Gbps -- 1,000 Gbps ~$50/mo
   Raspberry Pi 4B 1GB RAM $35
   Waveshare E-Paper HAT 264x176, 2.7 inch $18.99
   Personal Server Security Case Milled A606 Alloy Indiv. Cases Not
   Available
   Ethernet Cable CAT 5-8 ~$20
   One-Time Costs $73.99
   Recurring Costs ~$50/mo

Architecture

   Everything runs locally on the Personal Server. Using Ansible to deploy
   and Docker to run the application makes it easy to replicate builds and
   ensure consistency (Figure 5). In place of a managed database, we use
   `sqlite3` locally, and instead of using RiseUp for email forwarding,
   SMTP relies on custom configurations set by users.
   Personal Server Architecture

Defending Against Physical Access

Unique Identification

   The only access to the device is by removing the lid, and to help
   defend against physical access, uniquely numbered, tamper-evident tags
   seal the lid to the body. Personal Server owners are encouraged to copy
   their cover numbers down; if tampering is ever suspected, they may
   verify that they match.

Custom Case

   We designed custom cases milled from solid A606 alloy. All ports,
   except for power and ethernet, are sealed from physical access. The lid
   is a 5mm piece of smoked acrylic, giving a clear view of the e-paper
   display, which shows a QR code embedded with the device's onion
   address.

   Everything is plug-and-play; the owner needs no specialized training to
   set up and operate the Personal Server. Our custom cases are not for
   sale individually; we are exclusive distributors.

Ethical Monetization

   Hush Line is proudly supported by the Data Empowerment Fund, but
   Science & Design, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) and, as a non-profit, receives
   most financing through grant cycles that are both inconsistent and
   insufficient. Understanding the cost associated with web services,
   Science & Design understands the need to seek product sustainability
   through financial sustainability. We are seeking a path toward ethical
   monetization through paid tiers of features targeted at business users.
   We will always provide our core services for free, and will continue
   researching how to make Hush Line more valuable for paying customers
   while maintaining our non-profit principles.
   Feature Free Super Users Single-Tenant
   Daily Messages Unlimited Messages Unlimited Messages Unlimited Messages
   End-to-End Encryption E2EE (Free) E2EE (Super User) E2EE (Single
   Tenant)
   2FA (Two-Factor Authentication) 2FA Avail. (Free) 2FA Avail. (Super
   User) 2FA Avail. (Single Tenant)
   No Logging No Logs (Free) No Logs (Super User) No Logs (Single Tenant)
   Verified Accounts Verified Accounts (Free) Verified Accounts (Super
   User) Verified Accounts (Single Tenant)
   Self-Authenticating URLs Authenticating URLs (Free) Authenticating
   URLs (Super User) Authenticating URLs (Single Tenant)
   OCR Vision Assistant OCR Avail. (Free) OCR Avail. (Super User) OCR
   Avail. (Single Tenant)
   Mailvelope Mailvelope Avail. (Free) Mailvelope Avail. (Super User)
   Mailvelope Avail. (Single Tenant)
   Auto-Deleting Messages Auto-Deleting Msgs. (Free) Auto-Deleting
   Msgs. (Super User) Auto-Deleting Msgs. (Single Tenant)
   Simple SMTP Riseup (Free) Riseup (Super User) Riseup (Single Tenant)
   Aliases No Aliases (Free) 100 Aliases (Super User) Unlimited
   Aliases (Single Tenant)
   Custom Subjects No Custom Subjects (Free) Custom Subjects (Super User)
   Custom Subjects (Single Tenant)
   Files No File Support (Free) No File Support (Super User) File
   Support (Single Tenant)
   Custom Fields No Custom Fields (Free) No Custom Fields (Super User)
   Custom Fields (Single Tenant)
   Custom Domain No Custom Fields (Free) No Custom Fields (Super User)
   Custom Domain (Single Tenant)
   Branding No Branding (Free) No Branding (Super User) Custom
   Branding (Single Tenant)
   Stripe Integration Stripe Subscriptions (Free) Stripe
   Subscriptions (Super User) Stripe Not Applicable (Single Tenant)
   Monthly Price/User $0.00 (Free) $5.00/mo (Super User)
   $159.90/mo (Single Tenant)
   Annual Price/User $0.00 (Free) Monthly Pricing (Super User)
   $1,918.80/yr (Single Tenant)

The Path to Launch

Pre-Release Beta

   Before asking funders for support, having a minimum-viable product was
   an important milestone. To understand how we could improve the service,
   we ran a six-month beta program. During that time, we interviewed
   participants who included former whistleblowers, journalists,
   researchers, and others.

Feedback & Findings

   PGP Key Length: Depending on the encryption algorithm and other
   factors, PGP keys can differ in length significantly. Quickly after
   kicking off the beta, a participant tried using a key greater than
   10,000 characters long an was unable to.

   User Directory: After suggestions from one of our subject matter
   experts, Dr. Martin Shelton, we included an opt-in user directory. This
   allows whistleblowers to find who they need in a centralized place
   without hunting around the Internet.

   Bios: One prominent whistleblower suggested adding additional social
   proof, including a bio for the whistleblower: "Making sure the
   whistleblower can confirm at each step that they're talking to the
   right person is incredibly important for the person's safety."

   Better Message Forwarding: During the beta, we leaned on manual SMTP
   configuration, asking users to add their SMTP username, password, port,
   and server. A query at the end of the beta period showed that only
   1.35% of participants configured message forwarding.

   Beta Numbers

   Enrollment numbers for features like two-factor authentication appear
   low but are actually consistent with what we see with major platforms
   like Twitter, where the 2FA enrollment was 2.5%, slightly lower than
   Hush Line's beta.
     * Total Testers: 815
     * 2FA Enrolled: 3.07%
     * PGP Enabled: 2.82%
     * SMTP Enabled: 1.35%

Our First Grant

   Hush Line was awarded a $100,000 grant from the Data Empowerment Fund
   to bring the app from prototype to production. We hired our first
   engineers, including Micah Lee, the creator of OnionShare, and core Tor
   Project and SecureDrop developer.

Tentative Grant Budget

     * Engineering @ 65%: Infrastructure development, front and back-end
       engineering, accessibility, and cryptography.
     * Infrastructure @ 10%: Costs for hosting on various platforms.
     * Product Management @ 15%: Roadmap, UX, UXR, Project Management.
     * Org Admin @ 10%: Lights-on fee.

Engineering Timeline & Deliverables

   [gantt.png]

Grant Application

   As a new 501(c)(3) non-profit starting from scratch, both financially
   and from a product perspective, we can confidently say that finding
   funding is not a trivial pursuit. Unlike businesses in the for-profit
   sector, VCs do not give millions to non-profits that cannot potentially
   return a massive profit on their investment. What does that mean for
   social entrepreneurs who are passionate about change? How do we get
   started and encourage more to join the fight for more ethical software?
   To help provide a guide for future creators, we're including the
   questions and answers from our successful grant application below.

Questions & Answers

    1. Describe the problem you are working to solve, or your diagnosis of
       the status quo and why it must be changed.
          + In the workplace, up to 90% of women in some industries
            experience sexual assault and harassment. 61% of employees
            will witness or experience workplace harassment or
            discrimination. Only 18 out of 100 people will ever make a
            formal complaint, and fewer than 1% will find a resolution in
            court. Fear of retaliation causes this massive gap in
            reporting, but people want to help; they just can't always
            take on the risks of public involvement. This problem has
            started to gain legislative support, with the EU Whistleblower
            Directive of 2019 coming into effect in 2023. Now, employers
            must offer confidential ways through internal and external
            channels if they have more than 50 employees.
            For newsrooms, budget cuts, and layoffs force organizations to
            consider new publishing methods. Vice.com and Jezabel
            shuttering are two recent examples, but a more holistic view
            shows that from 2008 through 2020, there's been a 25% decrease
            in headcount. When approached to adopt whistleblowing tools,
            the first question many ask is, "Who will manage it?" The
            tools on the market currently include the robust but
            prohibitively difficult-to-set-up SecureDrop, and GlobalLeaks,
            a self-hosted tool requiring technical proficiency to
            configure and manage.
            And in schools, especially in the US, gun violence is an
            unfortunate reality that students have to live with. When we
            conducted research with students in West Oakland, we learned
            that students would speak up if they knew something, but if
            their "lives will be ruined" by being "labeled as a snitch,"
            they'll keep quiet. Coupled with budgets so low that many
            educators have to buy their own markers, a technical solution
            for school safety isn't always practical.
    2. Describe how your initiative is designed to address this problem or
       bring about this change.
          + Currently, no free and open-source managed tip line services
            are on the market, and this is what Science & Design is
            excited to bring to the market through Hush Line. We'll soon
            launch a platform that makes it easy for anyone to create an
            account and have a lightweight, secure, and anonymous tip line
            for free. For the highest threat models and those requiring
            complete control of their infrastructure, we have a hardware
            product called the Personal Server, which is designed to be
            the most secure way to run Hush Line. Or, if a user or
            organization prefers, they can host the platform on their own
            infrastructure.
    3. Tell us about the composition, experience and diversity of your
       team. Also list any other organisations who would be involved in
       your initiative, such as delivery partners or advisors.
          + Two of our members, Glenn Sorrentino and Micah Lee, both on
            the Science & Design Board of Directors, serve on the Board of
            Advisors for Distributed Denial of Secrets, a 501(c)(3)
            archiving and publishing hacked and leaked datasets serving
            the public interest.
            Science & Design is led by Glenn Sorrentino, a product
            designer and researcher with a long history of demonstrated
            impact by delivering core features and functionality for
            Salesforce, including Search, Voice, Identity, Authentication,
            and other platform tools still in use. He's been awarded
            multiple US patents for his work and has led the design of
            high-profile products that have been the focus of keynotes at
            the annual Dreamforce conference, which attracts more than
            100k customers. And as a former military whistleblower, he has
            personal experience speaking up.
            Our contributors include active journalists, members of the
            core team of OnionShare and Dangerzone, SMEs and researchers
            from Freedom of the Press Foundation, and individuals who have
            worked on tools like SecureDrop, Tor, and Signal.
            We're driven by a passion to bring usable, accessible, secure,
            and private products that add real value to people who need
            them most.
    4. Describe the maturity of your initiative.
          + Our first version of the app, a purely self-hosted,
            ultra-minimal version, was soft-launched at DEFCON 31 to a
            very successful reception. A few months before that, we
            applied for an independent security audit. We then started
            working on the Personal Server and a managed service. Those
            products were included in the security audit, which is
            currently wrapping up. We're waiting for a public GA launch
            until we can address the report's findings and anticipate
            finishing in early Q2.
            We currently have a private beta online where people can
            request an invite to test the app. We're limiting signups to a
            small group of users to conduct qualitative research to learn
            how the service might improve ahead of our GA launch.
    5. What value of grant are you seeking from the Data Empowerment Fund?
          + $100,000
    6. Describe what activities you would use the grant to undertake.
          + As we prepare for launch, we must consider infrastructure
            needs for scaling our service and, perhaps most importantly,
            mitigations for DOS attacks since we'll have journalists and
            other at-risk groups as users.
            Other areas to investigate:
               o Integrating the Signal protocol for email and PGP-free
                 service.
               o Native mobile apps for browser-free functionality.
               o Offline functionality.
               o Alternative censorship-circumvention methods, including
                 I2P or Snowstorm.
               o Code rewrite in a memory-safe language such as RUST.
    7. Describe what outputs you would use the grant to produce. These are
       the things your activities will produce.
          + The output of our activities will come with significant
            benefits to our product, including:
          + More resilient infrastructure to attack.
          + More reliable service for users experiencing censored internet
            connections.
          + More flexible service through Signal integration.
          + Delivery of native iOS, Android, and F-Droid apps that can
            help extend our reach to users who might only have mobile
            connectivity.
          + Future-proofed codebase with a rewrite in a memory-safe
            language.
          + Improved service for users experiencing internet outages.
          + New features tailored for expanded organizational needs.
    8. Describe what outcomes you would use the grant to achieve.
          + The first goal of Hush Line is to foster more trust in
            communities by offering safe ways to engage with people who
            can influence meaningful change. Will sources be more
            encouraged to speak up if they have a no-strings-attached way
            of sharing information with journalists? Can workplaces be
            safer if employees have a retaliation-proof way to report
            ethical or legal violations? And can schools be safer by
            giving students a trustworthy way to share information with a
            trusted educator?
            The data tells us that people will help if they know they'll
            be protected. Hush Line hopes to fill this gap with our
            product suite, which is designed to fit any threat model.
    9. Describe the ultimate impact you would use the grant to achieve.
          + We want to see Hush Line become ubiquitous in newsrooms,
            workplaces, and schoolhouses.
            One key metric for success will be not only our total number
            of users but also how many verified users we have. We offer a
            verification program so that community members can know the
            authenticity of an account. Once an individual or organization
            completes the verification process, their message submission
            page will display a Verified badge, helping anyone have
            confidence that their message is going to the intended
            recipient.
            Verification is only offered to journalists, newsrooms,
            educators, public figures, activists, and organizations.
   10. What will others be able to learn from your initiative?
          + We're particularly interested in supporting initiatives that:
            have significant public policy relevance; enable people to
            control how data is used to train AI models; and/or involve a
            novel legal, technological or participatory approach.
            Hush Line aims to solve not only user problems but also
            business problems. We want to encourage community involvement
            and participatory change-making through providing trustworthy,
            easy-to-use software.
            For business, we want to address organizational and product
            sustainability through our platform. Funding is challenging
            and uncertain. Because of this, many projects either go
            unfunded or need help to maintain and have to lean on
            volunteers to maintain velocity.
            We're excited to be the first free and open-source managed tip
            line service with a paid tier that includes features more
            tailored to organizational needs. Through exploring ethical
            ways of monetization, we hope that Hush Line can serve as a
            vehicle for financial sustainability, allowing us to maintain
            and evolve the product autonomously and ensuring our product
            and organization's long-term success.
            But we're not reserving monetization only for us. If an
            organization chooses, they can host the managed Hush Line
            service on their own infrastructure and either unlock all paid
            features for free or integrate their own Stripe credentials to
            bootstrap their own micro-economy.
            We believe that more 501(c)(3) organizations, like Science &
            Design, should offer reliable and trustworthy software
            infrastructure to help protect user data from being sold to
            data brokers and protect platforms against company takeover
            and shutdowns. A recent example is that of Skiff, a
            productivity platform whose value proposition was offering
            end-to-end encryption for their data. They were recently
            acquired and shut down by Notion, leaving their users, who
            included journalists and human rights defenders, in search of
            a new place to move their data. Since non-profits can't be
            acquired, this can be a meaningful way to ensure the stability
            and longevity of open-source platforms.
   11. Describe how the Data Empowerment Fund could support your work
       beyond providing access to funding.
          + While our team has deep product expertise, there's so much we
            need to learn. We want to network with other professionals and
            organizations and understand how to improve the product to
            serve more users and use cases. We're also aware that our
            ethical monetization model is relatively new for FOSS software
            -- we want to refine it into something that serves not only as
            a roadmap for others to emulate but one that the collective
            input of the broader community can shape.

    1. Stanger, A. (2019). Whistleblowers: Honesty in America from
       Washington to Trump. Yale University Press. Page 9.
    2. https://hbr.org/2020/10/do-your-employees-feel-safe-reporting-abuse
       -and-discrimination
    3. https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2021/07/13/u-s-newsroom-emp
       loyment-has-fallen-26-since-2008/ft_2021-07-13_newsroomemployment_0
       3/
    4. https://github.com/scidsg/hushline/pkgs/container/hushline%2Fhushli
       ne
    5. https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2021/07/13/u-s-newsroom-emp
       loyment-has-fallen-26-since-2008/
    6. https://theconversation.com/culture-of-trust-is-key-for-school-safe
       ty-92731
    7. https://hbr.org/2018/01/sexual-harassment-is-pervasive-in-the-resta
       urant-industry-heres-what-needs-to-change
    8. https://hbr.org/2020/10/do-your-employees-feel-safe-reporting-abuse
       -and-discrimination
    9. https://web.archive.org/web/20240711021747/https://www.sec.gov/news
       room/press-releases/2023-234
   10. https://tails.net/
   11. https://harpers.org/archive/2017/05/snowdens-box/
   12. https://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/02/world/europe/edward-snowden-russ
       ia.html
   13. https://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/06/world/middleeast/06baghdad.html
   14. https://www.aclu.org/news/free-speech/president-obamas-commutation-
       chelsea-mannings
   15. https://github.com/scidsg/project-info/blob/main/hush-line/5.%20Res
       earch/2.%20Legal/apple-v-andrew-aude.pdf
   16. https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/12/business/john-barnett-boeing-whi
       stleblower-dead.html
   17. http://f3mryj3e2uw2zrv3zv6up6maqosgzn27frz7xodvpl7pkestoyigtkad.oni
       on/#/
   18. https://www.caseiq.com/
   19. https://www.projectcallisto.org/
   20. https://getconfide.com
   21. https://www.faceup.com/en
   22. https://www.globaleaks.org
   23. https://hushline.app
   24. https://www.sandyhookpromise.org/our-programs/say-something-anonymo
       us-reporting-system/
   25. https://securedrop.org/
   26. https://signal.org/
   27. https://freedom.press
   28. https://www.qubes-os.org
   29. https://www.darkreading.com/endpoint-security/90-malicious-apps-55-
       million-downloads-google-play
   30. https://thehackernews.com/2018/05/efail-pgp-email-encryption.html
   31. https://github.com/scidsg/hushline/pull/461
   32. https://www.whispli.com
