Hush Line

Whistleblower management for journalists, lawyers, employers, and more.

   Hush Line is a platform that provides individuals and organizations
   with open-source, end-to-end encrypted, anonymous tip lines.

   Hush Line Product Suite

   Whistleblower Partners Logo Whistleblower of America Logo NPR Logo
   Bloomberg Logo HuffPost Logo ABC News Logo BBC Logo Tor Logo The
   Signals Network Logo UNDP Logo Mother Jones Logo CIR Logo Consumer
   Reports Logo Cyberscoop Logo The Markup Logo DDoSecrets Logo Cal
   Matters Logo KKC Logo Knowels International Logo Psst Logo EIE Logo
   Meraki Health Logo CanGlobal Media Logo Guardian Project Logo Haagsch
   Recherchebureau Logo Mucksec Logo Taller Logo Triplebit Logo
   Unredacted.org Logo

Featured In

   TIME Logo

   "Psst's safe is based on Hush Line, a tool designed by the nonprofit
   Science & Design, Inc., as a simpler way for sources to reach out to
   journalists and lawyers."

   -Billy Perrigo
   Newsweek

   "Investing in technology that protects privacy--such as Hush Line and
   Signal--is also important in sharing information that is anonymous, and
   can't be subpoenaed."

   -Ariella Steinhorn

Who is Hush Line for?

   Journalist Avatar

Journalists & Newsrooms

   Our public user directory lets sources easily find and contact the
   press without downloading an app or creating an account.
   Employer Avatar

Employers & Board Rooms

   Companies pay billions in penalties every year. Give employees a
   private way to report and fix issues when they happen.

   Lawyer Avatar

Lawyers & Law Offices

   Make it easy for people who require advanced privacy and security to
   reach you without compromising their safety.
   Educator Avatar

Educators & School Administrators

   Educators and school boards can sign up and share their addresses with
   students as a safe way for students to contact a trusted adult.

   Software Makers Avatar

Software Developers

   How do you receive vulnerability reports for your software? End-to-end
   encrypted messages keep your secrets safe.
   Activist Avatar

Organizers & Activists

   Give everyone in your community a safe and secure way to report
   information, regardless of their tech skills.

Why Hush Line?

Custom Encrypted Forms

   Make your message form work exactly how your business or workflow
   requires. Available for Super Users.
   Custom Message Forms

Authenticity guaranteed

   We offer free verified accounts for organizations and individuals so
   whistleblowers know their message is going to the right place.
   Verify Your Account
   Verified Accounts Screenshot

Triage and respond to tips

   Tip line owners can easily accept, decline, and archive messages and
   automatically let the submitter know relevant next steps.
   Triage Messages

We're committed to your privacy & security

   Hush Line understands the risks associated with disclosing information.
   To help protect our users, we're committed to the highest standards of
   privacy and security.

End-to-End Encrypted

   The same encryption trusted by scientists at CERN.

Anonymity with Tor

   Bypass censors and stay private while online.

Free & Open-Source

   Publicly verifiable source code. Review, copy, use.

Frequently Asked Questions

     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow How anonymous is Hush Line?
       Hush Line requires no personally identifying information (PII) for
       tip line owners to use the service, including an email address.
       We offer an Onion service for users with advanced privacy needs,
       which can be accessed using the Tor Browser, making connections and
       activity completely anonymous.
       Message submitters are not required to create an account and may
       also choose to use our Onion service to access the app.
       The Onion address for this site is:
       j5kv55yiu3rneydqn4f35kyhejbq3fhkkm7glg5nbtvxgaxthou7g2ad.onion
       The Onion address for the app is:
       hyewn4dvbedq7ooe3oxrhpceljd7ncfyeyts2c7nwsjp34i46smbzwid.onion
       Learn more about Onion services.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Is Hush Line end-to-end encrypted?
       Yes! Hush Line uses OpenPGP.js for client-side encryption, giving
       users who add their public PGP key end-to-end encryption for their
       messages. Users who disable JavaScript use server-side encryption.
       Adding your PGP key enables only you to have technical access to
       your decrypted messages. Neither the server administrators nor an
       attacker with access to the server can learn their contents.
       Setting up PGP is easy using our getting started guide.
       Hush Line uses TLS encryption for data in transit, message data is
       stored encrypted at rest on our database, and server access is
       limited to relevant members of the technical staff.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Is two-way communication available?
       If the individual submitting a message feels comfortable enough to
       include a contact method, they may choose to.
       For anonymous, indirect two-way communication through Hush Line,
       someone submitting a message may create a Hush Line account and
       leave the receiver their username.
       This is distinct from chatting with a known contact in your address
       book and returning to an ongoing message thread to jump back into a
       conversation.
       If having a dedicated message history is important, one solution
       could be for both parties to create Hush Line accounts that will
       only be used for that conversation.
       We strongly encourage both parties to upload their public PGP keys
       if pursuing two-way communication through the platform.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Can I be deanonymized?
       Neither us scrubbing IPs nor you using Tor and Signal are silver
       bullets, and there are many ways to deanonymize yourself. Take, for
       example, the case of Apple v. Andrew Aude. He was using Signal on a
       work-issued phone. Even if he was using Tor in combination, if your
       employer can just take screenshots of your device, no amount of
       encryption or technology will keep you private. The lesson: never
       use your work-issued devices for anything you want to remain
       private or an employer-owned network to connect to a site you want
       to keep private.
       If connecting to Hush Line using our clearnet address, attackers
       who can observe network connections--including your DNS or internet
       service providers--may be able to see your IP address and the
       address to which you're connecting. They *will not* be able to see
       which page you're on, who you're messaging, or the contents of your
       message.
       When thinking about blowing the whistle, always consider: What are
       you protecting, and who are you protecting it from? Is it a message
       to the local newspaper about the noisy neighborhood construction,
       an abusive business owner, or a corrupt local official? You can
       connect using our clearnet address and have confidence you'll
       remain anonymous.
       Or are you sharing national security secrets from within an
       authoritarian government that censors their internet and murders
       journalists? This is not legal advice, but a reasonable, though
       possibly prohibitively complex, way to ensure anonymity may be to
       somehow acquire and use a Tor-only amnesiac operating system like
       Tails or Qubes with a Whonix disposable VM on an uncompromised
       burner device where you'll encrypt your message locally before ever
       connecting the device to the internet. When you connect to the Hush
       Line Onion service, it should be on an uncompromised network you do
       not own, to which you are not related, and that isn't near your
       residence. Oh, and don't go anywhere that uses surveillance cameras
       or biometric identification, only use cash and don't go to an ATM
       near where you'll buy the device, leave your primary cell phone at
       home, don't check in to any location requiring your real name or
       ID, and if you have a car with a GPS in it, don't drive it.
       Reasonable, right? This might sound like a lot, but the point is
       that there is no one way to use Hush Line or "perfect" anonymity.
       You must consider your own situation uniquely. No matter what tool
       you use to send a message, if you share sensitive enough
       information about an individual or entity with enough time, money,
       and power, operational security will always be critically
       important.
       Sometimes, you can get in trouble by just being in the wrong place
       at the wrong time, like when this guy was arrested for riding his
       bike past a crime scene and became a suspect. Law enforcement
       subpoenaed Google for information about any device in that location
       in a given time period, and that was enough to bring the cops to
       his door. This raises the question: If you're sharing information
       of great enough importance, should you use a computer, phone, or
       operating system built by a major corporation that could be subject
       to such subpoenas?
       Sometimes, just having software on your phone is enough to make you
       suspicious, like in the recent case against Ola Bini in Ecuador.
       If you are considering blowing the whistle, it's always good to
       seek the advice of a legal professional familiar with your
       country's laws. If you do not have anyone you can contact locally,
       you may contact a firm specializing in whistleblower cases, which
       might be able to connect you to someone who can help.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Why not just use Signal?
       Signal is great, but it requires the whistleblower to download a
       new app, register with a valid phone number, create a username, and
       more. While not the largest hurdle, it is still a hurdle, placing
       requirements on the whistleblower before they can find help. In
       contrast, Hush Line is web-based and requires no account for the
       whistleblower or no new app downloads. It removes all hurdles from
       potential truth-tellers, freeing them from worrying about a new
       secure communication protocol and instead focusing on their message
       and not the technology.
       Hush Line aims to be the first step for whistleblowers. When they
       don't know what to do first or next, a safe and effortless way to
       contact the right person should be the least of their worries. Once
       a baseline level of trust is established, other tools like Signal
       are more appropriate.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow How is Hush Line different from SecureDrop?
       SecureDrop is a robust whistleblowing platform whose architecture
       is necessitated by very specific use cases: A.) To safely manage
       files sent by anonymous people so that a device or network isn't
       accidentally compromised, and B.) To provide a censorship-resistant
       and anonymous method of sending those files. When someone submits a
       message, an account is created for them, allowing two-way
       communication. To use SecureDrop:
       The tip line owner must:
         1. Do A LOT. SecureDrop is an "on-prem" solution, requiring you
            to store multiple servers locally, all focused on isolated
            tasks, using a dedicated network. Think of SecureDrop as a
            fixed workflow for receiving and handling potentially
            malicious files. You must do all of the things correctly to
            assume safe operation. It requires a lot of time, which means
            a lot of money. The installation and setup of the system, in
            most cases, needs to be conducted by a member of the SD team,
            with service contracts helping to ensure proper maintenance of
            the infrastructure.
       The message submitter must:
         1. Learn how to use SecureDrop.
         2. Download Tor Browser.
         3. Find the correct Onion address for their recipient.
         4. Submit a message.
         5. Save their account credentials.
         6. Check back for progress.
       Hush Line is not a replacement for SecureDrop. Instead, it's for
       organizations who might not have the staff required to manage such
       a system or need nation-state levels of defense for all of their
       anonymous tips. We simplify our security model by being a text-only
       service, meaning there is no possibility of receiving files that
       could harm your computer or network.
       We're a managed service, so you don't have to worry about
       maintaining physical infrastructure or learning new workflows. In
       fact, to use Hush Line, you don't even have to log back into the
       service after setting it up. We can deliver messages directly to
       your email inbox, so you can set it, forget it, and never miss a
       beat. Users can add their own public PGP key, giving them
       end-to-end encryption and ensuring messages cannot be read by
       anyone but them.
       Hush Line is also available on a clearnet address, or through our
       Onion service. Using the browser already on your computer or phone,
       you can easily submit a message without ever downloading a new app.
       Users who need higher levels of anonymity may optionally use our
       Onion service, requiring them to download Tor Browser. This
       flexibility allows for our service to be used for benign use cases
       or elevated threat levels.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Why not fork SecureDrop's code?
       While open-source, forking SecureDrop would require significant
       rework. Building a new solution allows us to optimize Hush Line as
       an easy-to-use hosted service.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Why Python?
       We use Python and the Flask framework because they're
       well-documented and supported. The developer ecosystem is rich with
       extensions for everything from user authentication to message
       encryption. Python is also one of the most used languages, making
       the project accessible to a greater number of engineers.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Why can't I receive files?
       Receiving files comes with significant risk, and the functionality
       is only sometimes necessary. It can lead to compromising your
       device, network, and any other device connected to it.
       For the sender, acquiring and sending files is one of the riskiest
       things they can attempt to do. Take the case of Reality Winner, who
       was caught because the document she shared detailing Russian
       interference in the US elections could be easily traced back to the
       originating printer, and from there, it was trivial to learn who
       printed it. She spent four years in prison. Or of Chelsea Manning,
       whose chat logs revealing war crimes led to the evidence bringing
       her conviction. She spent seven years in prison. Or of Edward
       Snowden, who, even with highly technical knowledge and after using
       tools like Tor and Tails, shared thousands of NSA files documenting
       warrantless surveillance programs and more and is now exiled in
       Russia.
       Moreover, we challenge the need to immediately receive files by
       asking the question: Should you be receiving files anonymously
       without any baseline level of trust? If so, there are tools for
       that, but we don't recommend starting with them.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow How do I verify a recipient is legitimate?
       Hush Line offers human-verified accounts for journalists,
       organizations, and public figures so you can ensure you're
       communicating with the right recipient. Do you need to verify your
       account? Send us a message!
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Has Hush Line received an independent
       security audit?
       Yes! In 2024, Hush Line's managed service, Personal Server, and
       self-hosted version received a security audit from Subgraph,
       sponsored by Open Tech Fund's Security Lab. View the report.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Where can I submit a vulnerability report?
       See something, say something! Submit a vulnerability report if you
       find a security issue, and we'll address it immediately! Submit a
       report!
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Is there more information?
       Read the Hush Line case study.
     * (BUTTON) chevron arrow Are there more ways to donate?
       Yes! If you want to use a credit or debit card, you should use our
       Open Collective account. For cryptocurrency donations, you can use
       the following addresses:
       ZEC: t1fWfUwLjsfZY5xnajjPHqQxfB3nj8hNggR
       BTC: bc1qm30x3zwm5wh2e07nfuqx3qme8jtzpl3qhn5sm7
       LTC: ltc1q33ycseddyfs0242kg07w3th5f066fekvheley6

Affordable & Ethical Pricing

   If you need more than what our free tier provides, we have options to
   meet your requirements! This information is subject to change at any
   time.

Free/Core

   This product is for the community, and our core services will always be
   free.
   Forwarding Addresses 1
   Verified Accounts  
   End-to-End Encryption
   Proton Mail Key Lookup
   Tor Onion Service
   Easy Email Forwarding
   Message Statuses
   Automated Message Replies
   Unique Reply Status URL
   In-App Message Decryption 
   Monthly  FREE
   Register a Tip Line

Super User

   For small to medium businesses that need features for teams.
   All Core Features
   Aliases
   OCR Vision Assistant  
   Unlimited Monthly Messages
   Custom Message Fields
   Base Subscription $0/mo
   Third-Party Donation   $0/mo
   Admin Fee   $0/mo
   Support Fee   $0/mo
   Monthly $0/mo
   Get Started

Single Tenant

   For businesses that need a dedicated managed service just for their
   employees.
   Number of Licenses [1_]
       All Super User Features
       No Feature Limits
       Custom Onboarding & Guidance
       Custom Branding

   Base Price   $0/mo
   License Cost $0/mo
   Third-Party Donation   $0/mo
   Admin Fee   $0/mo
   Support Fee   $0/mo
   Monthly $0/mo
   Annually $0/yr
   Contact Us

Supported By

   Psst.org Logo

Psst.org/PSA

   2024, 2025
   Data Empowerment Fund Logo

Data Empowerment Fund

   2024
   Open Tech Fund Logo

Open Tech Fund

   2023, 2024

Trusted By

   We're honored to be trusted by journalists, lawyers, and business
   leaders not limited to the following institutions...
   ABC News Logo BBC Logo Bloomberg Logo Cal Matters Logo CanGlobal Media
   Logo Consumer Reports Logo Cyberscoop Logo DDoSecrets Logo EIE Logo
   Guardian Project Logo Haagsch Recherchebureau Logo HuffPost Logo KKC
   Logo Knowels International Logo Meraki Health Logo Mother Jones Logo
   Mucksec Logo NPR Logo Psst Logo CIR Logo The Signals Network Logo
   Taller Logo The Markup Logo Tor Logo Triplebit Logo UNDP Logo
   Unredacted.org Logo Whistleblower Partners Logo Whistleblower of
   America Logo

Contact Us

   Thank you for stopping by! Hush Line is free and open-source product by
   Science & Design, Inc., a 501(c)(3) non-profit in the US. Get in touch
   using one of the channels below!
     * Private Message with Hush Line
     * Mastodon
     * Bluesky

   Built with by Science & Design, Inc., a 501(c)(3) non-profit located in
   California, USA  making a global impact.

   View Code | Licensed under the GNU AGPL License, Version 3.

   Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
